Hello, everyone. Welcome to a new episode of the
Dissenter. I'm your host, as always, Ricardo Lops, and
today I'm joined by Doctors Melissa Shu and Kimberly
Garsher. Melissa is currently the associate director of Teaching
Excellence at Marquette University, where she is also the
faculty director of their executive MBA program. And Kimberly
is associate professor of philosophy at Kent State University,
and they are authors of Philosophy for Girls and
Invitation to the Life of Thought, and we're going
to talk about the book today. So, yeah, there
it is. Melissa and Kimberly, welcome to the show.
It's a huge pleasure to everyone.
Thank you so much for having us.
Great, so, OK, so philosophy for girls, what is
the premise of the book?
So the premise of the book is that when
the word philosopher springs to mind, you usually picture
someone in a toga or someone with some arm
patches and smoking a pipe or someone with a
beret, and that someone is usually a man. And
there is nothing about philosophy as a discipline that
makes it be for men. Yet, throughout the history
of philosophy, and our focus is going to be,
uh, mainly on the history of Western philosophy, but
throughout the history of Western philosophy, philosophers have tended
to be represented as men. And so the premise
of the book is, what if that's not true?
What if philosophers don't have to be men? What
if there are a lot of philosophers in our
midst and throughout history who haven't been men? Yet
we have these going ideas that they are only
men. So the premise of the book is not
an anti-man book, but it's an intentional expanding of
what philosophy means and who it's for, to include
more than men. By that, we mean women and
non-binary people as well. So, the book then has
that premise, which is, if philosophy were to be
open to more than men, what might it look
like? Who might write it and who might it
be for. There's an additional premise as well, which
is what if philosophy were to be written with
clarity and were to be written with accessibility and
um not lose any of its rigor. So the
other premise is, how can we understand philosophy to,
to be accessible to more than just professional philosophers
as well. And so that's the, the start of
the book. I'll just add a little story here,
which is that just the other day, even when
I was talking about this book with someone, They
said, what do you mean? Of course women do
philosophy. And I said, name a woman philosopher. And
there was just crickets. And this is from a
younger person who's pretty well read and pretty hip,
um, and couldn't do it. And so that shows
that this book is, for better or worse, and
I think for better, um, still needed today.
Right, you've already partially answered my next question when
you mentioned the audience or the target audience of
the book, but who is its target audience actually?
Because the, since the title is Philosophy for Girls,
is it primarily young women or can it be
people of any age and any gender?
Thank you for that question. So one of this
book's contributors is Gillian Russell, and I think she
really answered this question nicely. At one point when
the book was coming out a few years ago.
She said, imagine that you cook a great meal,
um, and I actually do love to cook, and
so does Kim, so this is an appropriate analogy
here for us. But imagine that you cook a
great meal, and someone special is coming, and you
know that they're really going to enjoy that meal,
but everyone else will enjoy it as well. That's
kind of like this book. So, this book has,
um, I guess it's special guests, younger women and
non-binary people in philosophy, but it is to be
enjoyed. As a great meal is for everyone. I'd
add to that Kim and I think that some
of the most important readers of the book, and
I use important with quotation marks here, but some
of the most important readers of the book are
men, because men need to know what is going
on, um, with their younger non-male counterparts as well.
Also, we think that the anecdotes that open each
chapter are especially relevant to the lived experiences of
young women, so that resonates too. So I guess
the answer is the book is for everyone, but
its special audience is um kind of younger versions
of the contributors themselves. And, and that's actually what
we prompted. Our authors to start with. Imagine an
18 to 22 year old version of yourself. What
book do you wish you would have found on
a bookshelf? And it's kind of that poetic image
of just running your fingers down books as we've
all done in the bookshelf and just going through
this, that, whatever book and seeing a title on
a cover that strikes your fancy. And our hope
is that this book is especially for our younger
counterparts, um, both here and around the world.
But why a philosophy for girls then? Why do
we need it and what is a philosophy for
girls exactly?
So, girls have been 100% systemically excluded from the
history of philosophy and thought. You can look at
marginalization, both in the Western world and around the
world for that. They haven't been at the table.
If you look at, for example, even women's leadership,
women are not promoted as much. They aren't in
leadership positions as much. And another area of my
research shows that women are overly punished for contributing.
Ideas, even in a workplace. So, why do we
need a philosophy for girls? We need a philosophy
for girls because we need girls to feel empowered
in their intellectual thoughts. And this book is explicitly
for that. And so by working through some of
the major themes in philosophy and making it relatable,
but still rigorous, we aim to empower our younger
counterparts. In the introduction, Kim uses a really nice,
um, Line. So I'm sorry, Kim, if you were
going to say this later, but she uses a
really nice line, which is, if you see a
girl reading at her table at her desk, leave
her alone. She is in training, and I love
that idea.
QUOTATION though, and I don't recall the author, but
that is. Yeah,
well, you, well, you use the line and
I use the line, but I, it, I'm not
the originator, and that's like, oh, go ahead,
no, go ahead.
I was just going to add one of the
early reviewers of the book, um, to build on
exactly what Melissa said in this, in response to
this question and the earlier question. Um, ALL reviewers
found that it was very empowering for young women,
young girls, um, non-binary people, basically not men, but
they encouraged men and young men to read it
because it made them more aware. Perhaps if they
were less aware to begin with, they became more
aware of the philosophical work that young girls do
on a regular basis in living their lives, in
moving about the world. They engage in philosophical thought,
they have philosophical questions, they wonder at the world.
And sometimes the life of that mind or the
life of mind is a little hidden if it's
not displayed, um, Thoroughly in academia.
Right, and what are the goals of the book
then? There are a couple different goals of this
book, um, So, Kim and I are both parts
of various online teaching communities. Well, they're teaching community
supported by social media online, like teaching philosophy and
a bunch of different philosophy, nerdy groups and so
on. And I'd say that one of the goals
of this book we're seeing kind of come through
there, which is this book is getting into classrooms.
This book is helping to shape curriculum at the
1000 level, at the core required philosophy levels. This
book is finding its way into high schools, which
is really appropriate for advanced high school students, and
this book is finding its way. Um, AS kind
of a companion as well to what people are
doing in their curriculum. So just the other day,
for example, someone was commenting on a forum that
they use a chapter that's about credibility, which is
a great chapter, um, that draws upon the myth
of Cassandra, who knew the truth of a situation.
That was about to happen, and no one believed
her. And so they were using that chapter to
pair on some work they were doing with epistemic
injustice. So, on one hand, part of the goal
is to, frankly, infiltrate philosophy curriculum and what it
is that we understand philosophy to be um in
a classroom and beyond. Another goal, though, of course,
is to And going back to that idea of
just kind of finding a book on the shelf
to be able to get this book into the
hands of as many people who want and need
it as possible, and whether that's um in the
English speaking world or elsewhere. So, for example, this
book most recently has been translated into Persian slash
Farsi, and before that, it was translated into Vietnamese.
Right now, it's being translated. Into Chinese and um
also into Japanese. And this is wonderful for us
because we hoped that philosophy for Girls would become
a little bit of a murmur around the world
so that people would be kind of encouraged to
take up these kinds of projects. The translators have
been amazing. Um, AND it's all these women. And
then there's one guy too, who are doing this
work of translation. And so we've been able to
be in correspondence with them as well. But I'll
say that as a goal of the book, the
goal is not to say, this is what philosophy
is, this is all it is, and that's that.
It's really to open up those conversations and dialogues,
um, cross culturally and across histories and with our
own selves. So to that end, You know, those
are really two of the goals, to help shape
how we understand kind of introductions to philosophy and
what philosophy entails, and then to make sure that
this gets into the hands of a whole bunch
of people, so that they have the opportunity to
read it, and not just learn from it, right?
I mean, the conversations that Kim and Kim and
I have Had with the translators, we are learning
just as much from them, um, then I think
they're learning from this book. But the whole idea
is that we should be doing more of stuff
like this to get it to younger people who,
I mean, cliche as it is, really are the
future of our thought here and hopefully some better
world making.
Mhm. No, you, uh, you know, I, one of
the reasons why I asked you to do an
interview with me about the book is, first of
all, I found the idea behind it very interesting
and uh it's very important to talk about representation
in philosophy and I guess academia more broadly, but
also because uh some of these things like what
I'm about to ask you, uh, regarding the gender
gap in philosophy. Uh, I have, I have also
to learn about them because for me it's not
foreign or alien at all to think about philosophers
as also women because I've had a ton of
them on the show. If people go to my
philosophy playlist, I mean, probably still the majority is
men, but I have many, many women philosophers on
the show, so I'm not unfamiliar with the. Uh,
CONCEPT at all, but tell us then about the
gender gap in philosophy and I mean, is it
mostly in academia when you go to academia, do
you tend to find more, uh, male, uh, Students
and professors there than female ones or
not. Yes, so the gender gap exists in philosophy,
at least academic philosophy, and we're academics, so that's
the field we're most familiar with. But the gender
gap actually exists both in representation in student body
as well as representation at the faculty level. So,
what we find typically is that you have a
fairly evenly distributed um enrollment in, in the introductory
classes across genders. Um, And somehow, the movement from
the introductory level classes to upper-level classes starts to
become heavily gendered. So, you see, by the time,
um, students are graduating, you already see many more
male students, um, graduating with that degree than female
students. And then if you look at the faculty,
Some people might say, well, then that explains the
faculty gender difference, but that's not quite true, um,
because it, it is the case that there are
more men than women in academic philosophy, but the
The skew of by, or the, the difference by
gender is, is quite dramatic and one might think
that, well, um, if we were going to simply
say that there were more boys interested in philosophy,
therefore, there are more male philosopher professors, that should
hold true for other fields too that have been
heavily dominated by men, such as, say, physics or
engineering. Um, SOME of the latest data, and we
don't have a lot of very recent data, but
some of the most recent data that we have,
um, on representation of women at the faculty level,
uh, there are fewer female philosophy professors by percentage
than there are female physics professors. And it's about,
uh, at that time, it was probably 18%. I
would guess that it's up to about 2021 now.
But that is, uh, fairly dramatic. And um we
are uh regularly surprised at how very few women
not only go into professional philosophy, but then also
how rarely they get promoted and tenured compared to
their male counterparts. And when there's several flawed arguments
as to why that is, um, but we see
all sorts of drop off along, along the way,
such that by the time you're looking at, um,
senior faculty members, The difference is quite, quite distinct,
in fact.
Mhm. Right, so before we get into the causes
behind that gender gap which you also talk about
in the book, uh, in the book you focus
on gender and not sex. What is the difference
between sex and gender and why does that matter?
Sure. Um, SO I can talk about that again
for coming from an academic perspective and I'm going
to say things that most academics across sciences and
across humanities agree upon, um, but clearly it is,
uh, still a very, um, contentious subject, especially in
our country. Um, WE tend to think of sex
as the biological conditions of reproductive organs, OK? So
we're talking about gametes or testes, ovaries, these sorts
of things. So, when we talk about sex, we're
talking, talking usually about male or female and what
is one's reproductive capacity. And that doesn't mean that
one has to be able to reproduce to be
sex, and we understand that there's a huge phenomenon
of intersex people and there's a huge phenomenon of
um Uh, variable genetic conditions. So we're not talking
about just say, the physical existence of the testes,
which would be the phenotype or the genotype of
XY versus XX, but any combination of those biological
factors that are represented, um, such in the person's
body, sort of from, from birth. That's sex. Gender
can be related to sex, but it's not the
same thing. So gender is an expression of self,
typically influenced by cultural norm, as well as possibly
sex. Um, SO I tend to think of these
two things as connected, um, but sliding scales, right?
Such that sometimes, often, they tend to line up,
such that People who tend to have, um. XX
chromosomes and ovaries tend to identify as women or
girls. Not always. We have queer peoples, we have
trans peoples, we have non-binary peoples. So, we can
get that slippage here, and we're not exactly sure
exactly where the connection is, whether it's hormonal, whether
it is in fact, um, gestational. We have all
sorts of different information, but they can, they can
affect each other. Certainly, I'm not claiming that they're
entirely Unrelated. But they are not, they are not
related in a 1 to 1 relationship the way
that many of our schemas assume. And then you
could add a third kind of slider on top
of that, which would be sexuality, which is the
expression. Of sexual desire. And that, again, can be
influenced by gender and sex, but it's not necessarily
determined by it. So, these three topics are connected,
but we don't have the information. We need to
make sure, to make claims that are certain about
precisely how they are connected. All we know now
is that they can be connected and they tend
to move across spectrums that are mostly I won't
say mostly, but sometimes correlated. And we can predict
some of those correlations, but not always.
Um, AND why does the underrepresentation of women in
philosophy historically and contemporarily matter? Because, you know, someone
could just say or could just reply to what
you've said there earlier. Regarding the, the percentage of
women in academic philosophy, oh yeah, but whatever, they're
making their choices, probably there are more men than
women who like philosophy. I mean, what would you
reply to that?
Shall I take the first stab at that, Melissa,
or would you like
to? Yeah, OK, I know where you're going. Yeah,
I hope so. Um, SO number one, because we
live in a gendered society, a patriarchal society for
the most part, the experiences of women are different
than the experiences of men. And, um, those experiences
deserve to be examined philosophically, voiced philosophically, and incorporated
into the larger conversations we have about society. That's,
in my mind, the most important reason for voicing
the philosophical work of women. And that's connected to
another, uh, question that you'll ask, I think, down
the line, but I'll let Melissa jump in here
as well. OK.
Yeah,
so.
I think there's a very real way in which
things matter to the degree. We invest them with
importance. And I have Simone de Bevoir in my
mind, and she says, there's no kind of value
or good that exists by itself out there in
the ether, but rather, things are important and meaningful
insofar as we invest them with intelligence, sensitivity, and
vitality. And so, I think that it matters because,
so that is gender representation in in philosophy matters,
because we still believe that philosophy is a discipline
worth pursuing and doing, and that that should be
open to all. I'm gonna tell a quick story.
So I started teaching at Marquette University when I
was 29 years old, and my own background is
in ancient Greek philosophy. I mean, Socrates is the
goat, we can all agree on this. I'm writing
a chapter as I did on questions without invoking
Socrates, um, it was actually easier than I thought,
but I mean, I'm obsessed with the guy, right?
And a lot of people in this book who
contributed to this book have, um, their own favorite
obsessions, whether they're men or women philosophers and so
on. But anyhow, so I got my PhD in
in philosophy from the University of Oregon, where Kim
and I met as grad students and became um
philoso sisters and kind of best friends. And so
I'm teaching at Marquette, and I'm 29 years old,
and I'm just teaching Greek philosophy and all the
things I know to teach. And I just kind
of assumed that by virtue of me teaching them
as a younger woman in philosophy, that there would
therefore be great conversation, and that therefore would be
some kind of equity or parity. And that was
not the case, in fact. And so what happened
was, and this was back in 2008, 2009-ish, what
happened was, these women in my classes would write
their butts off in their essays, but they wouldn't
really speak in class without saying something like, I
don't know, but, or it's only my opinion, or
I'm really unsure, I don't know. But then they
would write circles around a lot of people in
the class. And so I, I started reading their
essays. And I started calling them into my office,
and I'm like, why? I mean, I'm teaching this
class. I'm a young woman in this discipline, like,
why aren't you talking? And everything started to come
out in those 1 to 1 conversations. Um, AND
it's a lot of what Kim was saying about
those gendered expectations and who gets to have a
right to have a voice. Um, AND I have
a little bit more to say on that in
a second, but, But what started to come out
was that these women in my classes, and this
is not unique to Marquette University, this is around
the country, these women didn't know that they could
speak with confidence their ideas without being punished or
humiliated in class or a fear of retaliation. By
the way, that is still a major problem in
companies and corporations and organizations and such today, that
when women put an idea out there, if it
gets shut down, then they are um overly punished
for it, or they're retaliated against for it, and
that's a big problem. But so these women started
to kind of share their ideas in my office.
And I thought to myself, you know, it's not
enough to have a woman in front of the
classroom. And sometimes it's not enough to even have
a representation in your materials, but we need to
be doing philosophy in a kind of way that
encourages and doesn't just shut down discussion and debate.
And so, another aspect of this book, Philosophy for
Girls, is that it's intentionally dialogical. All the chapters
are kind of in conversation with each other, because
it's a, it's a different way of trying to
do philosophy. Now, that is not a more woman
or female way. OF doing philosophy. This is actually
how Kim and I think philosophy is best done
through collaboration and discussion and dialogue rather than just
smashing people down in debate. That's entertainment, but it
doesn't necessarily get us any closer to those ideas
of vitality and sensitivity, um, and importance.
Mhm. But, but historically speaking, is it that there
have been very few women philosophers, or is it
rather that they tend to be omitted? I mean,
is it that we know about Socrates. Is Plato,
Aristotle, Saint Augustine, Descartes, Hume, Kent, and Nietzsche, because
we tend to talk about them and not so
much about Hypatia and Simone de Beauvoir, or, or
is it that they're just fewer women than men?
I will take this one first if that's OK.
So, and then I'll kick it to Kim. So.
Um, IT'S a both and, exactly. And it's a
both and because fewer women have been allowed to
be in a position where they can think about
ideas and not just about other concerns and cares
of the house. And it's also been, um, I
mean, the history of philosophy is a history of
erasure in a certain way, and erasing those voices
of women. Now, there have been a wonderful number
of recovery projects in philosophy right now, and Ricardo,
I think you know these as well, to go
back and see who's writing with Descartes, where are
the women, where are the non-white philosophers, and to
see if we could do some kind of historical
recovery of them. And those people doing that work
are doing the work of the gods and goddesses,
as far as I'm concerned, to make sure that
they are not permanently erased. From that history. But
I would say that it's certainly a both and
women haven't tended to be privileged to be in
positions of being at the table with their ideas.
And so there's been that omission, whether it's intentional
or um just by neglect. And then there are
historically kind of fewer. So, Kim, go ahead.
Yeah, I would agree completely. It's both and um
I will also add that, uh, sometimes what we
find is that women who were doing philosophy at
the time. Um, WERE so denigrated, uh, by their
colleagues at the time that their work was overlooked.
Going back to Melissa's point, which is that there
are a number of recovery projects, um, at work
here. So, for example, in American philosophy, um, there
have been several amazing, powerful women philosophers who were
dismissed as social critics or, um, uh, Not even
sociologists, but just, you know, they were working on
women's issues. They were never given the title of
philosopher and therefore, they weren't read by others who
are studying philosophy and therefore weren't taught. That's changing
now.
OK, so what do you think are the causes
of the gender gap in academic philosophy then?
Um, THERE are, I think, multiple causes, and, uh,
the phrase that one of our, um, one of
our sources uses is that it's a perfect storm
of multiple causes. So, and we've already talked about
uh some of these causes, so I won't, uh,
belabor them. But the first is, um, Implicit bias,
which is, uh, the idea that certain genders are
expected to behave in certain ways. And what happens
is when we move. In our heads, which always
happens, from just saying, oh, genders are, certain genders
are associated with certain behaviors to certain genders must
do these behaviors, um, it becomes incredibly limiting in
terms of what can be accomplished by those people
because when we see, uh, women, we expect only
certain behaviors and those are dictated by general. Gender
schemas or norms. Um, WE can also talk about,
uh, stereotype, um, worries about stereotypes, and this again
goes to something Melissa has already mentioned, which is
that, um, what we often see are young women,
girls, women, even at the professional level. WHO are
afraid to voice their philosophical ideas because they are
afraid of repercussion, because they are afraid that they
will be dismissed because it has happened so much
in the past. Um, SO we see these things,
we see a lack of representation, uh, we see
lacks, you know, young girls do not see as
many women professors as they see men. We see
other, uh, issues that exist across a number of
disciplines, including the fact that, um, when you research,
um, perceived dominance of, say, classroom conversation time, Um,
typically, you find that boys or men, um, they
speak most of the time, um, a lot of
the time. And the time that women or girls
actually speak is so far overestimated by men that
it, it's actually a little bit absurd. So, I
don't have the numbers directly in front of me,
but let's say, uh, I think Melissa, you might
know this off the top of your head more
than I at the moment, but I think roughly
it's about 75% of conversation is usually dominated by
men and boys. But when you ask men and
boys how much girls talk, they will tell you
more than 50%, right? So they assume that women
are speaking far more than they actually are. So
we see all, and that's not just in philosophy,
that's in the STEEM, that's in. Um, YOU know,
public health, that's across the board. So, I think
we see a lot of converging reasons. Go ahead,
Melissa. If I
can just pipe in, so I have a, um,
a research interest in intellectual joy for women's leadership,
and so I have A good amount of research
about what happens kind of post-graduation and what this
looks like for women at work. And so, Kim,
just to amplify a point you were making, study
after study shows that non-white women in particular, do
not even have what they say in meetings attributed
accurately to them. That's right. And so, so what
happens is, right, not only are women kind of
misrepresented more, and they speak less, but they're thought
to be, you know, a squeaky wheel or grinding
the gears, but what they say is literally Really
not attributed to them correctly, especially for non-white women.
So that becomes deeply problematic in all aspects of
our lives in which we're trying to exist and
flourish, as Kim was saying. Um, SO, I just
wanted to kind of amp that up, and I'd
say that women too, in terms of leadership, whether
it's in a boardroom and so on, um, are
retaliating. AGAINST for their ideas a lot more than
men. And so, for example, just a few quick
data points. And so Kim is also a bioethicist
and works with medical doctors, and here's a relevant
example that connects with her world. When a male
surgeon loses a patient, there's no decline in referrals,
but when a woman surgeon does, referrals decline by
33%. Women CEOs are 40% more likely to be
fired than their male counterparts, and so on. And
so what you have here, and again, to bring
this back to the realm of ideas, what you
have here is people leading with their ideas and
what they think is right and so on, being
overly punished if they're women and especially if they're
non-white women, to the point of not even having
what they're saying attributed to them correctly. OK, Kim,
back to you.
Yes, yes, indeed.
OK, so would you say that this is then
a matter of cognitive bias,
cognitive bias on behalf of, or who's, who's cognitive
bias, um, and I guess, could you say a
little bit more about what you have in mind
by cognitive bias?
Yeah, when, for example, you mentioned that even when
women intervene, and men tend to remember more other
male interventions and female interventions. I mean, is that
a matter of cognitive bias of a certain kind
or not?
It, go ahead, Melissa. That's
OK. So, I would say yes, and I have
a philosopher named Miranda Fricker on my mind right
now, in terms of what she calls credibility excess
and credibility deficit. So, what that idea means is
that if a And I have so many examples
from my own life, and so does Kim as
well. But credibility excess happens when someone is automatically
granted, potentially even more credibility, so more belief than
is necessarily warranted by virtue of their identity markers,
right? Um, AND by the way, it's not just
about being a woman in a man's space or
something like that. It's kind of relative to any
situation. Incredibility deficit happens when someone is not granted
credibility based on certain kinds of identity markers. And
so I think that that is a cognitive bias,
and I think it's one that women experience. So
just a, a quick example for me, I teach
a lot of core required philosophy 101 classes, and
I know that on day one, and I'm, you
know, a woman in my late forties right now,
I'm not the 29 year old when I started
teaching. Well, I started teaching earlier than that, but
that's neither here nor there. But I know that
still, on that first day of class, at some
point, I'm going to be talking about philosophy and
trying to get people hyped up and jazzed and
to believe in it. And then I'll walk over
to the board and I'll write something in Greek.
I'll write usually Gnohi Seatan, which means know yourself.
I'll write something in Greek, and then turn around
and I will see students kind of calibrate, oh
my gosh, she knows things. Now you would think
that having a PhD and teaching for 20 some
odd years and researching and so on and so
forth would automatically grant you that. But in some
cases, it doesn't, whereas I have a great dear
colleague who is an older British guy with a,
a nice Downey or Downton Abbey accent, and he
walks into a room and of course, he knows
what he's talking about, and I say this with
great affection, he's wonderful, but that is a kind
of cognitive bias. And so what we see then,
again, study after study are these repercussions. I wanna,
I wanna share one more example, please, if you
don't mind. Which is, I have an interest as
well in what's happening in the art world, and
there's a study that was done by amazing feminist
archivists and museum curators to show that um there
is an incredible bias against women artists, which we
might kind of intuitively know, but it's shocking how
much cognitive bias there is against women's artists. So,
for example, 1.6 million pieces of artwork were examined
at auction, and what happened was all the names
were removed from the works of art, and then
the works of art were valued at whatever amount.
And then when the names are attached, if the
artist were a woman, the value of that work
of art plummeted by 47.6%. So, nearly by 50%,
and I think that art is a representation of
someone's ideas. And so the second, and this is
to your question on cognitive bias, the second a
woman's name is attached, the value plummets by 50%.
And so, in all realms of life, whether it's
leadership, philosophy, art, education, we still see this bias
very alive, um, unfortunately. And this book, of course,
is helping, trying to help counter that to some
degree.
Mhm. And I would add, I, I agree with
everything you've just said. I just, um, was, because
I have all of these same ideas in mind,
I was a little hesitant to restrict the label
of bias to simply a cognitive one, but I
absolutely agree that, um, it is an issue of
bias on, I would say a number of levels,
yeah.
Mhm. But do you know if the way philosophy
is done is gendered in any way? I mean,
is there anything distinctly male about philosophical methodology? And
of course, I, I know that uh depending on
the way some people might interpret this question. It
could allude to, uh, sex differences in cognitive ability
or something like that, but I mean, it's not
necessarily that it could just be, for example, a
matter of socialization and um men and boys and
girls being socialized to prefer different kinds of um
intellectual or cognitive methodology, something like that, but is
there something like that playing out here or not?
I think, uh, thanks for that question and thank
you for the nuance because I would say that
there's no, um, inherent intellectual difference between the sexes
or genders. Um. What I will admit is that
there are very different social expectations, gender schemas, um,
custom, ritual, all of these things that contribute to
the way that we exist in the world as
human beings. And because philosophy is done in certain
settings, which are largely in the United States at
least, um, white, uh, male-dominated, um, Ciss dominated, uh,
dominated by straight people, these sorts of things, those,
those, those expectations and ways of being in the
world do come out in the work that people
do, but there's nothing inherent in those differences. So,
what I would say is, can we recognize difference
right now? Yes. Is there anything to say that,
that, that, that difference is necessary? Absolutely not. And
so part of this book in my mind is
trying to call attention to. The current ways that
we think um about philosophy differently, but also the
way that there's a universality of philosophical wonder across,
um, any number of spectrums. So, yes, I think
that because philosophy is currently done in a patriarchal
system and a racist system and all of these
other systems, we can point to differences in the
way that people do philosophy. Um, THAT doesn't mean
there's anything inherently different. So for example, again, Gillian
Russell, who, um, is a fabulous contributor that Melissa
mentioned earlier, her chapter is on logic, and, um,
one would say, well, logic is simply logic. There
is no logic for girls, and yet she is
the one who said, look, Think of making a
beautiful meal for guests, but you have a particular
guest in mind when you make that meal. The
meal is gorgeous for all guests. Logic is logic
for all guests, but it could be that the
way that it's presented is special for one person,
or it could be that the way that it's
made relevant is special for a different person. And
that I think is where we see a lot
of the difference. So some of the questions raised,
The experiences that we point to, what counts as
evidence or epistemic, um, uh, Uh, authority. These sorts
of things are definitely affected by, um, the different
biases that we see at play in society. There's
nothing inherent about those biases.
And I'm thinking about, so, I have a little
smile on my face because I'm thinking about how
the history of Western philosophy is really the history
of people being brilliant geniuses suddenly, whether it's Descartes,
right, kind of sitting in his room in his
nightgown by a warm fire. Thinking about his life,
whether it's Thoreau, whose mom brought him food out
at Walden, he has this time to himself. We
have this idea that philosophy takes an isolated genius
mind to unfurl into the heavens, some brilliance of
thoughts. And I think that that is false. And
I also think that um how we've happened to
understand philosophy according to the status quo, and Kim,
I think you just beautifully said so much of
that. According to the status quo, that doesn't have
to be the future of philosophy, nor does it
have to be the nature of philosophy. So, I
think about, um, for example, in the sciences, how
you have multiple contributors on a paper, philosophy still
has the dominance of one author, right? One author
usually combating or countering someone else's minor position and
so on. And if you read a lot of
academic philosophy, and I say this with some affection
to even myself and my friends, it's painfully boring,
really tedious, and, um, often very poorly written. And
so, I think that the future of philosophy, as
anticipated by this book, a lot of other great
work in philosophy as well, is collaborative, it's dialogical,
and it doesn't have to be as painful, both
academically and otherwise, as it has been in the
past. And I'd wait, I'd make one bigger claim,
um, related to academia as well, which is, I
think that if philosophy as a discipline doesn't kind
of wake up to that. I think it's going
to be squished out of more and more universities.
And I think that that is a shame. I
think that what's happening to the humanities and social
sciences kind of broad scale, um, is nothing short
of a modern tragedy. But I think that if
we were to lean into some of the strengths
of philosophy and discussion and dialogue, And this goes
all the way back to ancient Greece, really. And
if we were to kind of remember, um, those
sorts of things, we could in fact build a
better world in philosophy. And again, I think there
are some great people doing that work, and I
think there are some amazing scholars, and you've interviewed
many of them, who are writing rigorous philosophy in
a more public facing way, and I think that
that's good for everyone as well.
I mean, in, in regards to the bit about
uh individual, about the myth of it, it being
individuals in is in isolation producing philosophy. I mean,
I guess it applies to any kind of intellectual
endeavor. It, it's Not really individuals, it's collectives of
people. And, I mean, at the very, very least,
you always are influenced by the work of other
people and sometimes even shamelessly steal ideas from other
people, right? Or not so shamelessly. Sometimes we share
an attribute, right?
Yeah, I, I, I mean, I mean, but sometimes
that also happens, right? Yeah,
yeah, absolutely.
Totally, and I think again, um, in the world
of generative AI and a whole bunch of other
things, I, I think getting back to the basics
of what does something mean? Why is it important?
How can I know it? How can we commit
to certain ideas, whether it's ethics or metaphysics with
each other? I think that Just that movement is
going to become more and more important as we're
facing any number of different challenges, and especially in
education, because as you both were talking, I was
thinking about how at a bare minimum, dialogue should
be happening in our classrooms, and that too is
a kind of community.
Mhm. Right. Exactly. So how did you select the
topics and questions you explore in your book? Because
I mean philosophy is a hugely vast field. I
mean, you could have picked thousands of different topics,
so you went through things like identity, justice, wonder,
virtue, reality, deliberation. Why these topics and questions specifically?
So, this was really fun to work out together
in terms of the general breakdown and vision of
the book, because you're right, it could go any
number of ways, and at a certain point, we
just needed to choose. But what we did was
we book, we broke the book down into 4
sections that map onto kind of known areas of
philosophy, whether that's ethics or social and political, um,
metaphysics, and so on. And then what we decided
to do, because we wanted, we wanted the book
to relate to academic philosophy and to be usable
in different classrooms and such and have some identifiable
categories there. But then what we did was we
reached out to some Excellent writers who are great
philosophers or philosophers who are excellent writers, and we
invited them to contribute on their area of expertise
to the book within those different sections, and we
were very happy that a good number of people
said yes. However, since we are also equity-minded and
justice-oriented for a whole variety of reasons, we did
not just want to handpick people for the book,
um, but we wanted to do an open call
to see What people were getting up to. And
so, we put out a call and we worked
very hard to get a nice range of contributors
from a lot of different roles and positions in
philosophy, writing awesome chapters with the requirement being that
each chapter needed to start with an anecdote from
history, philosophy, myth, not philosophy, history, myth, literature, whatever,
science, in order to open up the topic so
that it would be coherent all the way through.
So, then what we ended up with were 20
chapters written by women and non-binary contributors, broken down
into 4 sections, but according to some main questions
and themes that people tend to have in philosophy
about identity, about autonomy, um, about questions, about courage,
and so on, Thus, trying to make an accessible
but and digestible book that would invite people into
philosophy without saying this is the final word, you
know, there are some big gaps in here, there's
some things that are missing, and uh we hope
that that'll be in future volumes and maybe that
we will be able to do that down the
road.
And if I could just add a story, um,
when this book was being reviewed for potential publication
by Oxford, um, reviewers were for the most part,
positive, hence the publication, um, but we got a
number, a number of comments that were, um, why
aren't you addressing love? Why aren't you addressing religion?
Why aren't you addressing mind? Um, THESE sorts of
things, and when we tallied those, there were actually
more suggestions about topics we had missed than topics
we had included. And so we, again, to follow
up with what Melissa is saying here, we hope
to have additional volumes, but you can only do
so much in a particular book. So narrowing it
down in the way that we did, um. It
was partly because of the kinds of contributions that
we got, um, and the people who submitted, um,
proposals, but also because we recognize the, the pragmatic
needs of, of getting a book done, um, but
there are any number of topics that could have
been in this volume that are not that we
hope to include later and, um. The those topics
are in no way diminished because they weren't addressed
in this first go round. Simply, this is how
it worked out.
Absolutely, and then at the beginning of the book.
Not the very, very beginning, which I'll talk about
maybe later, but at the beginning of the book,
we laid out some threads, um, kind of like
some pathways through, because as the book was coalescing
as a book and not a random assemblage of
essays on different topics, we were able to see,
and I think it's in part because Kim and
I are lifelong educators, we're able to see these
different overlapping threads and kind of ways through. And
so the book doesn't need to be read from
beginning to end straight through. This is not that
kind of book. Um, THE chapters are in conversation
with each other, and there are different questions that,
that go all the way through the book, and
so that is exciting for us as well. And
again, we call it an invitation to the life
of thoughts, not the final word in philosophy.
Right. So let me ask you a different kind
of question now. Do you think that women can
be empowered through philosophy, and if so, how?
Do you wanna start? Go ahead, Melissa. I'll, I'll
formulate here.
I think absolutely, and I think I've really thought
a lot about this question over the past few
years. And If I had to make kind of
a provocative claim here, I'd say that intellectual empowerment
for anyone might happen only through philosophy. And I
know, and I'm gonna, I'm gonna put it out
there, because what I see. In our classrooms are
a lot of people, and we mentioned AI earlier,
a lot of people immediately surrendering their autonomy and
their own right to their own ideas to other
people. And whether that's to whatever AI spits out,
so you put in a question to chat GPT
and this is actually an enormous problem for undergraduates
right now, that they'll put a question in, and
the answer comes out, and then they immediately think
that that must be right, right? That's the authority.
And so, I think that especially for young people,
and especially for young women right now, The way
to be empowered is through philosophy. That is, being
able to have confidence in who you are, and
your right to have ideas, even when they're wrong,
is the way to be fully empowered. If you
can read, write, and think with some competence, and
you can know why you think what you do,
then that is empowerment. It also means that a
person will be resilient without having to simply have
grit to make Get through and I believe very
much in intellectual resilience. Now what that means though
is that we need to have social structures in
place where students, for example, aren't just punished in
their education or marked down for getting things wrong
all the time and instead they're able to. EARN
their credit, and they're able to feel their accomplishments
and also be able to take some failures. One
big problem I see going on right now, an
enormous problem, especially in education, is that students are
afraid to voice an opinion because they think they're
just going to be canceled or wrong. I think
we see this in social media, I think we
see this through AI and so on. And I
think we see people who have historically been marginalized,
like women. AND people of color, they are especially
susceptible to this. And so I think if I
really needed to make a provocative claim, the only
way to intellectually empower someone is through having them
engage with the ideas that they're actively having. One
quick anecdote about this, as I said, I've done
some work on intellectual joy and intellectual empowerment. And
this year at my university, I asked several 100
first-year students, so these are students who, most of
whom just graduated from high school because I teach
at a traditional university, and I asked them, and
they're all in these required biology classes that they
stress out about all the time. And so I
asked them about their studying for biology, and they
all say they study a lot individually and together
and so on. And then they take the test.
And I ask them how they feel after they
take that test, that first kind of bio test.
And students report that they freak out, this is
their language, until they get their score, right? And
so all that studying, all that work that they
put in, after they finish the test, they immediately
surrender their work, their efforts, their intellectual resilience, what
they did and didn't do, they surrender it to
whether they got something right or wrong. I think
that that is totally intellectually disempowering. So, I, I
was trying to convince them, I didn't, of course,
succeed in the time that I had. I was
trying to convince them that they should be able
to think about their effort, they should be able
to review what they did and did not do.
They should be able to come to peace with
whether they felt like they succeeded or failed before
they even get back the test. But because young
people generally feel so, just again, generally, intellectually disempowered,
they just want to know if, if what they
did was right or wrong. And study after study
shows that women are brought up as children, from,
from being children, to be right or wrong, to
be perfect or imperfect, whereas boys tend to be
raised and brought up to be courageous or brave
or to make some mistakes. Yet, on a large
scale, so many young people now are are kind
of in a position of giving up that autonomy
or their own agency and so on. So, in
terms of intellectual empowerment, telling students that they have
the permission to have their ideas, and that they
can have ideas that are worth having, and also
not worth having, that they can discard and have
some intellectual agility with, that seems important. Now, for
that to happen, it means that we need psychologically
safe spaces without what is called now by Jonathan
Hay and some others, safetyism. That is, it can't
be the case that anytime someone says something that
I disagree with, I'm immediately offended, right? Or I'm
immediately undone. But rather a psychologically safe space in
a classroom and otherwise means that the conditions are
there for the possibility of authentic conversation, and it
means that a student should be able to ask,
why do we have this assignment or why is
this like this. And there should be able to
be reasons, right? And so psychologically safe spaces, which
are especially important for women and people of color,
means that they're not going to be retaliated against
if they ask a question or more than that,
you know, try to um offer a counterpoint.
And I've, I'll, I'll take it in a slightly
different direction. I agree with everything Melissa has just
said. But as um you were asking the question
Melissa was answering, I was thinking of the way
that I try to introduce the topic of philosophy
to students. And obviously, you will know this, Ricardo,
as will most of your listeners, but the word
philosophia or philosophy means love of wisdom. And I
spent quite a bit of time talking about how
it's not knowledge. First of all, it's wisdom, um,
which implies an ability to seek clarity and act
appropriately, right? Um, BUT then I turn to and
emphasize the love aspect and why it's not ownership,
right? It's not, um, possession, that what do we
know about love? Love is typically a lifelong pursuit.
It's a relationship between multiple beings who are agents
usually in their own rights. Um, IT is something
that is very hard work. It takes listening to
other people. It takes changing your mind. It takes
out, um, reaching out, it takes being vulnerable, it
takes offering forgiveness, it takes asking for forgiveness. All
of these things that students tend to typically associate
with the word love is not what they associate
with academia. And they don't think of the work
of academia as being something that is a loving
work. And I'm not trying to be overly romantic
here. I'm simply trying to say, philosophy, it, your
question, you know, is it empowering? Or can it
be philosophically empowering to teach these, these topics? Yes,
because it's encouraging people to pursue good lives, right?
And to recognize that sometimes we get off track,
to seek help, to assert ourselves when we believe
we are right, and that they know this about,
say, relationships, but they don't associate those things necessarily
with Understanding with knowledge, with um virtue or value,
um, with uh morality or ethics or justice or
any of these ideas.
Right, so this is a question that is in
a way linked to the one where I asked
you if philosophy is gendered and if you, if
there's something about philosophy that is tailored in terms
of its methodology more toward men than women. But
if philosophy is still dominated by men, do you
think that for women to be successful there, they
have to adopt any norms of masculinity?
My first response to this is no. Um, I
actually think that the change should come on the
other side, which is that perhaps men should pay
attention to the ways that norms of masculinity are
problematic for many people in the world. Um, SO
I don't want to couch it in terms of
a masculine feminine dynamic in answering this particular question,
although I understand what you're asking. Um, SO, is
it possible that women can take on, um, norms
typically associated with men and, and succeed in various
fields? Absolutely, of course, of course. And do I
encourage that for women who choose those routes? Yes,
absolutely. Um, BUT is it the case that women
must simply conform? No. Uh, AGAIN, this is about
a better life for everyone, about a better world
for us, and a better world for the future,
and that means that the change cannot be one-sided,
um, and we have to be critiquing those norms
even as we say things like, well, we can
understand why assertive leadership is important sometimes. That's fair.
Um, BUT we have to understand also why empathy
and intellectual, um, awareness and, uh, intelligence is as
important. Um, SO I would say, Not necessarily. Some,
some people can and some people do, and when
they choose that, yes, good on them, but um
we need not look for a one-sided change.
Mhm. Uh, ANYTHING you'd like to add to that,
Melissa, or?
I just want to listen to my friend talk
all the time now, but, um, I'll just add,
you know, again, kind of broader than philosophy, when
we're thinking about people in their work lives, There
are some serious challenges to Kind of what's what's
called a lean-in model by Sheryl Sandberg, and Bell
Hooks is one of my favorite philosophers slash kind
of critics of everything. And several years ago, when
that book called Lean In came out, which is
premised on the idea that women need a seat
at the table, this is true, and that women
essentially need to do what men do in boardrooms
to, to get ahead. So that's the basic premise.
So, it's a training program on how women, for
example, can learn to golf like men and therefore
be part of those conversations to get that seat
at the table. Bell Hooks and myself and a
good number of people, and then I'm thinking about
liberation theologists like Paulo Freiri and um people who
are into Education as a, as a way to
be free, they all push back on that conception
that to be a leader is to be like
a, someone who's always been in that leadership position,
whether that's been a white man or whatever it
is. And what they're interested in, and Kim is
very much speaking to this, is an entire culture
change. And so, you know, what does that table
need to look like? What are the conditions for
people to be in leadership positions? Um, WHOSE voices
are missing, we should always be asking that, who
needs to be heard? And it's not that everyone
needs to be heard all the time. And this
is also to Kim's point about, you know, we
need assertive leaders, right? But that assertive leadership doesn't
always have to be how it's always always been.
And I would say that academia is very slow
to change. It's extremely status quo. Um, IT reinforces
higher Hierarchies all the time, even while academics are
writing about justice, there are injust practices and unjust
practices in their own houses, and we should put
all of this on the table. And I think
that academia, so to again, take that big picture,
is itself in a really precarious position right now,
at least in the United States, but I know
elsewhere around the world. And so, I think it
would be in, Everyone's best interest in higher education
to be thinking about these things, whether it's for
academic philosophy or for what the future of learning
looks like, especially in constantly having to make a
case that it should exist and um that thinking
and learning and seeking truth in, you know, a
time of rampant misinformation is maybe more important now
than ever. Mhm
So are there any strategies we can adopt to
address the gender gap in philosophy, and if so,
what would you say are the main ones?
I can, I'll take lead and then kick it
to Melissa, um, or not lead, but first answer.
Um, FIRST, I think we can have better representation.
Girls and women need to see themselves in philosophical
inquiry. Um, THIS book attempts to begin that project.
We need to recognize the kinds of questions that
girls and women may ask that are different than
the ones that are typically asked, again, stereotypically. By
men or boys or those in dominant positions. We
need to be asking not just about um what
the experience of, of women and girls are, but
um non-white peoples, queer peoples, these sorts of questions.
And so we, we need to um have better
representation. We need to see ourselves in the texts.
Again, one of the strategies of this book. Um,
WAS, as you noted earlier, um, to show the
breadth of women philosophers and the work that they
have done. So girls and women can say, oh,
yeah, OK, it's not all Descartes, it's not all
Socrates. Hail to the king. Um, BUT that we
see, you know, we're seeing all of these different
reclaimed figures and figures that haven't needed to be
reclaimed, Beauvoir and contemporaries. Um, SO, We, we, these
are some initial strategies. Uh, THEY center around representation,
identification, um, and, and being heard, but I will
now kick it to My friend.
Yeah, so, we wanted the book not to just
be, it's interesting, actually, I think, because we wanted
the book not to just be about political issues
or social issues or identity issues. We really didn't,
you know, philosophy is about more than that, and
I think once The stereotype and philosophy is that
if you're a woman working in philosophy, you have
to be working on certain kinds of topics. And
I'll say that in my own life, being a
woman in ancient Greek philosophy, I was subjected to
some of those critiques as well. Well, she can't
be a feminist because she works in ancient Greek
philosophy. False dichotomies everywhere. But in terms of representation,
you know, we asked our authors to use mainly,
not exclusively, but mainly, Historical and contemporary sources, so
secondary literature and primary literature, not written by men,
in part because we know all those, or a
lot of them. And, you know, It's our experience
as kind of micromanaging editors of this book, um,
We don't miss them. We don't miss the men.
And I will say that, because, as it turns
out, when you look closely enough, there are an
abundance of women philosophers, both to be recovered and
then writing now to be discovered. There are some
movements going on in philosophy about citation, attribution, and
making sure that in papers, say, written in disciplines
that are traditionally male dominated, that women are included,
or at least referred to, or at least considered.
There is a movement that started a few years
ago called, congratulations, you have um an all-male panel,
right? Because so many panels in philosophy are simply
men and so on. I will say that I
think it's a complicated issue because you also don't
want tokenizing and you also don't want to have
a woman on just because she's a woman, um,
so that tokenization, but because she has something to
contribute, but we do see people kind of making
a, a show of simply reinforcing the status quo.
So, we hope that this book then through the
clarity that each contributor writes with through the coherence
and discussion that arises through the combination of chapters,
through the citations and references, and through just kind
of the passion and sincerity with which every chapter
is written. I mean, this book, um, by many
people's accounts is a labor of love with, again,
Kim, you know, as you so beautifully emphasized that
love is leading the way here. We hope that
this book shows that philosophy can be done for
People not traditionally included in it, and then represent
people who have been doing philosophy all along that
maybe haven't been noticed. Um, ONE last word on
my end is that the book opens with, and
so I showed it here, so on the cover,
there is a picture of a pomegranate, and you
might wonder why is there a pomegranate on the
book of uh called Philosophy for Girls. Well, it's
because the book opens with, um, a retelling of
the Persephone story. So to come back to this
idea of naming and representation, in ancient Greek myth,
poetry, and philosophy, You know, we know a lot
of the gods and goddesses, but we actually don't
know much about Persephone. Persephone is the daughter of
Demeter, who, of course, is one of the great
Greek goddesses, and What happens is Persephone is abducted
slash seduced slash raped, it's all the same word
in Greek, by Hades, the king of the underworld,
and is brought down to Hades and um ends
up spending 6 months underground and 6 months aboveground,
um, the only goddess to rule in two realms,
and she has those 6 months because she eats
6 pomegranate seeds. Now, we retell the story of
Persephone to be the story of this imagined. Young
woman coming into her own consciousness and coming to
her own kind of authority and autonomy and having
to, frankly figure things out. In fact, before she
was abducted, Persephone was never called Persephone, she was
just called Korre, which means girl, and it's not
until she grows into this power that she really
grows into her name. And then just an interesting
bit of trivia is that once she does become
this queen of the underworld, um, almost every time
her name is mentioned in Homer or in Greek
myth, Persephone is always preceded by a word that
translates into thoughtful or circumspect, but she's incredibly wise.
AND she's incredibly clever, and she's a little bit
feared because she is a powerful goddess. And we
love this as the opening of this book, to
think about what it is to be a girl
coming into her own, having to traverse many different
realms of life, and becoming who she is all
along.
Mhm. What do you call this book, uh, feminist
book?
It is a book of philosophy done by women
compiled in a feminist spirit. How is that for,
you know, using some, some, uh, word like or
word garbage there, but what I mean is the
topics are universal topics, um, identity, autonomy, uh, Uh,
logic, right? Um, THEY are done by women, and
so we hear women's voices, and we certainly had
a feminist agenda in putting the book together. But
again, young men or men of any age can
pick this book up and learn about philosophy from
this book, and we've been very proud of the
responses we've gotten. That emphasize that it's not just
for girls that, um, actually anyone can read this
and learn about philosophy.
It's absolutely a feminist book, as Kim said, and
feminism, we think is good for everyone. It's also
not itself a homogenized discipline or subset of philosophy,
so even the word feminism, I think is a
pluralistic word, um, but yeah, it's absolutely in a
feminist spirit of friendship and love and conversation, and
of course, you know, we think that men should
be feminists too.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, definitely feminism is not anti-men,
right? Yes, correct. OK, so one last question then.
So you were able to write an entire book
about some of the major branches of philosophy with
nearly all sources written by women. I'm saying nearly
and not all because I, I didn't go through
all the references to, to check it. So what
does that tell you about the contributions of women
to philosophy and how does it contrast with how
they are perceived?
There is power there if we're willing to look
for it. There is wisdom there if we are
willing to look for it. There is, um, Leadership
and knowledge and love there if we're willing to
look for it. And um societally, we've not always
been willing to look for it. Uh, THAT doesn't
mean that it's suddenly a new thing. Um, IT'S
that we perhaps now have the luxury of being
able to look for it. Um, SO, I, I
would say that, uh, We need to. Legitimize the
voices and questions raised by, or the voices and
questions of girls and women, and the voices of
girls and women and the questions raised by girls
and women. Um, But also legitimize simply um. Younger
voices. Uh, THAT'S one thing we actually didn't talk
about is why we chose to use the word
girls. And I'll just try to wrap this, um,
by going back to a comment at the very
beginning of the podcast, which was, you know, what
does a philosopher look like? Uh, I do that
exercise with my students on the first day. Uh,
FOR introductory classes, and they almost always see a
toga, you know, an olive, um, wreath, um, these
sorts of things, but, uh, more than anything, they
see an older person, you know, um, it, it's
male, but he always has a beard and it's
usually gray. And um I, I always say, no,
look, look, look around. I'm sorry, I'm doing one
of those obnoxious, look to your left and look
to your right, y'all are philosophers. This is, this
is what philosophy looks like. You are, are a
philosopher and we're going to learn more philosophy together.
So, um, I, I strayed from the direct answer
of your question but hopefully kind of um tied
it up there.
Mhm. Uh, Melissa, do you want to add anything
to that?
Yeah, so, you're right, it's not all women sources,
and that makes good sense for the book, too.
I mean, we could have just made that a
requirement and people would have done it, but then
that would have been a matter of compliance, and
we don't want that. Um, BUT it is mainly
women sources. And as Kim said, They're there. And
no one was writing to us saying, I can't
come up with women philosophers. Everyone had them ready
in mind, and then if they didn't, they, they
did some digging, um, to find that out. But
again, you know, I wrote an entire chapter on
questions and, and wonder without mentioning Socrates. And as
much as I love Socrates, he is to me
the goat. I didn't miss him, and I don't
think that Chapter is any worse for wear. So,
as I'm kind of flipping through this book, as
we're talking, and I'm looking at the bibliographies of
each chapter, I'm thinking about how if someone wanted
to, they could just put that together and have
an incredible reading list in philosophy, and that itself
could be the basis of a, of a class.
I'd add to that, um, Um, one thing that
we did as a result of this book was
we put together a website called The Persephone Project,
and I did this with 5 former students, um,
thinking about truth, meaning, and identity. And then there's
a page of resources about this book with some
questions that correspond to each chapter, and they're questions
and reflections written by The book's intended readers. And
so, you know, again, the hope is that it's
not just what's in this book, but what comes
from it, that shows, as Kim was saying, the
power of all of us to be philosophers. But
I don't think the book is any worse for
wear, for not being just filled with a bunch
of men writing. Um, WE have lots of those
books.
And, not, not at all, not at all. It's
a great book, so yeah, but go ahead. Sorry.
No, I was just going to say, and no
one, even, um, critics of, uh, the title or,
or the subject matter of the book, no one,
not any critic have, uh, that I've heard of
anyway, has said, well, I think the book is
worse off because there's not enough men in it.
There's lots of critique. Um, THAT'S fair. That's what
we do in philosophy, but no one has said.
You should have used more men. That seems to
have been appreciated by almost all readers and uh
reviewers.
Yeah, great to know. And the book is again
Philosophy for Girls, An Invitation to the Life of
Thought. Of course, I'm leaving a link to it
in the description of the interview. And would you
like just to let us know where people can
find your work on the internet before we go?
Maybe Melissa, you can go first.
Sure. So, if anyone's interested in some of these
ideas about intellectual joy and intellectual empowerment, I have
a white paper on the power of intellectual joy
for the future of women at work, and I
have a TEDx talk on women and intellectual empowerment.
All of this is part of the same sort
of package here, and I can share those links
as well.
Right then, Kim.
Uh, YEAH, I would say if you're interested in
finding the book or others like it, you can
find, it can be found almost anywhere online. It's
published by Oxford University Press. You can find it
there. Um, THEY'VE published a number of other books
that are outstanding pieces in contributing to Um, philosophy
done by and, and for women. Um, AND I
would absolutely send people to Oxford, um, other academic
presses, but also, uh, look out for all of
those fun books that are around as well, that
are starting to feature and focus on the voices
of girls and women.
And if you do read this book and like
it, um, or if you don't too, that's fine,
then it would be great to actually leave a
review, um, because the way that more books like
this get published, and I'm not talking about the
future of philosophy for girls, but other things like
it, The more kind of feedback comes from readers,
the more presses are inclined to take projects up
like this. So whether it's through the Independent Booksellers
Hub or through a big platform like Amazon, sorry
to say, but it helps, um, go ahead and
leave a review of your favorite books. In fact,
that's what everyone should do right now, go leave
5 reviews of books to encourage the kinds of
books you want to see in the world.
Yeah, just follow the link that I will leave
in the description and do that immediately. So, and
Melissa and Kim, thank you so much for taking
the time to come on the show. It's been
fun to talk with you.
It's been an absolute pleasure. Thank you so much
for having us. I've enjoyed it.
Indeed, and thank you for shining a light on
this book and all that it took to make
it happen. Thanks so much.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Enlights, Learning and
Development done differently. Check their website at lights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters,
Perergo Larsson, Jerry Mulleran, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seaz Olaf,
Alex, Adam Cassel, Matthew Whittingberrd, Arnaud Wolf, Tim Hollis,
Eric Elena, John Connors, Philip Forrest Connolly. Then Dmitri
Robert Windegerru Inai Zu Mark Nevs, Colin Holbrookfield, Governor,
Michel Stormir, Samuel Andre, Francis Forti Agnun, Svergoo, and
Hal Herzognon, Michel Jonathan Labrarinth, John Yardston, and Samuel
Cerri, Hines, Mark Smith, John Ware, Tom Hammel, Sardusran,
David Sloane Wilson, Yasilla Dezara Romain Roach, Diego Londono
Correa. Yannik Punter DaRosmani, Charlotte Blis, Nicole Barbaro, Adam
Hunt, Pavlostazevski, Alec Baka Madison, Gary G. Alman, Semov,
Zal Adrian Yei Poltontin, John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward
Hall, Edin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franco Bartolotti, Gabriel P
Scortez or Suliliski, Scott Zachary Fish, Tim Duffyanny Smith,
and Wisman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georg Jarno,
Luke Lovai, Georgius Theophannus, Chris Williamson, Peter Wolozin, David
Williams, Dio Costa, Anton Ericsson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw,
Marie Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, Bangalore atheists, Larry D. Lee
Junior. Old Eringbon. Esterri, Michael Bailey, then Spurber, Robert
Grassy, Zigoren, Jeff McMahon, Jake Zul, Barnabas Raddix, Mark
Kempel, Thomas Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Story, Kimberly Johnson,
Benjamin Galbert, Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brendan, Nicholas Carlson, Ismael
Bensleyman. George Ekoriati, Valentine Steinmann, Per Crawley, Kate Van
Goler, Alexander Obert, Liam Dunaway, BR, Massoud Ali Mohammadi,
Perpendicular, Janaertner, Ursula Guinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsov, Sean
Nelson, Mike Levin, and Jos Necht. A special thanks
to my producers Iar Webb, Jim Frank Lucas Stink,
Tom Vanneden, Bernardine Curtis Dixon, Benedict Mueller, Thomas Trumbull,
Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John Carlomon Negro, Al Nick
Cortiz, and Nick Golden, and to my executive producers,
Matthew Lavender, Sergio Quadrian, Bogdan Kanis, and Rosie. Thank
you for all.